[SYCLomatic]Update bitcracker third party code. (#629)
oneapi-src/SYCLomatic-test: third-party-programs/Velocity-Bench/bitcracker/README.md

# Migration example: Migrate bitcracker to SYCL version
[SYCLomatic](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic) is a project to assist developers in migrating their existing code written in different programming languages to the SYCL* C++ heterogeneous programming model. It is an open source version of Intel® DPC++ Compatibility Tool.

> This file lists the detail steps to migrate CUDA version of [bitcracker](https://github.com/oneapi-src/Velocity-Bench/tree/main/bitcracker) to SYCL version with SYCLomatic. As follow table summaries the migration environment, software required and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file lists the detailed steps to migrate CUDA version of [bitcracker](https://github.com/oneapi-src/Velocity-Bench/tree/main/bitcracker) to SYCL version with SYCLomatic. As follow table summarizes the migration environment, the software required, and so on.
```

   | Optimized for         | Description
   |:---                   |:---
   | OS                    | Linux* Ubuntu* 22.04
   | Software              | Intel® oneAPI Base Toolkit, SYCLomatic
   | What you will learn   | Migration of CUDA code, Run SYCL code on oneAPI and Intel device
   | Time to complete      | 15 minutes

## Migrating bitcracker to SYCL

### 1 Prepare the migration
#### 1.1 Get the source code of bitcracker and install the dependency library
```sh
   $ git clone https://github.com/oneapi-src/Velocity-Bench.git
   $ export bitcracker_HOME=/path/to/Velocity-Bench/bitcracker
   $ cd ${bitcracker_HOME}/CUDA && mkdir build

>    $ cd build && cmake ..   # make sure all dependency library are installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ cd build && cmake ..   # Make sure all dependency libraries are installed.
```

```
Summary of bitcracker project source code:
```
   CUDA/
   ├── CMakeLists.txt
   └── src
      ├── aes.h
      ├── attack.cu
      ├── bitcracker.h
      ├── main.cu
      ├── sha256.h
      ├── utils.cu
      └── w_blocks.cu
```

#### 1.2 Prepare migration tool and SYCL run environment

>  * Install SYCL run environment [Intel® oneAPI Base Toolkit](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/base-toolkit.html). After install, Intel® DPC++ Compatibility tool is also availalbe, setup the SYCL run environment as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Install SYCL run environment [Intel® oneAPI Base Toolkit](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/base-toolkit.html). After installation, the Intel® DPC++ Compatibility tool is also available, set up the SYCL run environment as follows:
```

>  * Install SYCL run environment [Intel® oneAPI Base Toolkit](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/base-toolkit.html). After install, Intel® DPC++ Compatibility tool is also availalbe, setup the SYCL run environment as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Install SYCL run environment [Intel® oneAPI Base Toolkit](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/base-toolkit.html). After installation, the Intel® DPC++ Compatibility tool is also available, set up the SYCL run environment as follows:
```

```
   $ source /opt/intel/oneapi/setvars.sh
   $ dpct --version  # Intel® DPC++ Compatibility tool version
```

>  * If want to try latest version of compatibility tool, try to install SYCLomatic by download prebuild of [SYCLomatic release](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/blob/SYCLomatic/README.md#Releases) or [build from source](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/blob/SYCLomatic/README.md), as follow give the steps to install prebuild version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * If want to try the latest version of the compatibility tool, try to install SYCLomatic by downloading prebuild of [SYCLomatic release](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/blob/SYCLomatic/README.md#Releases) or [build from source](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/blob/SYCLomatic/README.md), as follow give the steps to install prebuild version:
```

>  * If want to try latest version of compatibility tool, try to install SYCLomatic by download prebuild of [SYCLomatic release](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/blob/SYCLomatic/README.md#Releases) or [build from source](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/blob/SYCLomatic/README.md), as follow give the steps to install prebuild version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * If want to try the latest version of the compatibility tool, try to install SYCLomatic by downloading prebuild of [SYCLomatic release](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/blob/SYCLomatic/README.md#Releases) or [build from source](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/blob/SYCLomatic/README.md), as follow give the steps to install prebuild version:
```

 ```
   $ export SYCLomatic_HOME=/path/to/install/SYCLomatic
   $ mkdir $SYCLomatic_HOME
   $ cd $SYCLomatic_HOME
   $ wget https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/releases/download/20240203/linux_release.tgz   #Change the timestamp 20240203 to latest one
   $ tar xzvf linux_release.tgz
   $ source setvars.sh
   $ dpct --version #SYCLomatic version
 ```

For more information on configuring environment variables, see [Use the setvars Script with Linux*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-linux-or-macos.html).

### 2 Generate the compilation database
``` sh
$ cd ${bitcracker_HOME}/CUDA/build
$ make clean
$ intercept-build make
$ ls compile_commands.json  # make sure compile_commands.json is generated
compile_commands.json
```
### 3 Migrate the source code and build script
```sh
# From the CUDA directory as root directory:
$ cd ${bitcracker_HOME}/CUDA
$ dpct --in-root=. -p=./build/compile_commands.json --out-root=out --gen-build-script --cuda-include-path=/usr/local/cuda/include
```
Description of the options:

>  * `--in-root`: provide input files to specify where to locate the CUDA files that needs migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * `--in-root`: provide input files to specify where to locate the CUDA files that need migration.
```

>  * `-p`: specify compilation database to migrate the whole project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * `-p`: specify the compilation database to migrate the whole project.
```

Now you can see the migrated files in the `out` folder as follow:
```
   out/
   ├── MainSourceFiles.yaml
   ├── Makefile.dpct
   └── src
      ├── aes.h
      ├── aes.h.yaml
      ├── attack.dp.cpp
      ├── bitcracker.h
      ├── bitcracker.h.yaml
      ├── main.dp.cpp
      ├── sha256.h
      ├── sha256.h.yaml
      ├── utils.dp.cpp
      └── w_blocks.dp.cpp
```
### 4 Review the migrated source code and fix all `DPCT` warnings

SYCLomatic and [Intel® DPC++ Compatibility Tool](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/oneapi/dpc-compatibility-tool.html) define a list of `DPCT` warnings and embed the warning in migrated source code if need manual effort to check. All the warnings in the migrated code should be reviewed and fixed. For detail of `DPCT` warnings and corresponding fix examples, refer to [Intel® DPC++ Compatibility Tool Developer Guide and Reference](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/intel-dpcpp-compatibility-tool-user-guide/top/diagnostics-reference.html) or [SYCLomatic doc page](https://oneapi-src.github.io/SYCLomatic/dev_guide/diagnostics-reference.html).

> Fix the warning in migrated bitcracker code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fix the warning in the migrated bitcracker code:
```

```
$ cat ${bitcracker_HOME}/CUDA/out/src/attack.dp.cpp
...
/*
DPCT1110:3: The total declared local variable size in device function
decrypt_vmk_with_mac exceeds 128 bytes and may cause high register pressure.
Consult with your hardware vendor to find the total register size available and
adjust the code, or use smaller sub-group size to avoid high register pressure.
*/

void decrypt_vmk_with_mac(
...
```

> This message is shown because the Compatibility Tool finding the user-declared private memeory size of local variable in the kernel may exceed 128 bytes which is the largest register size for each work-item. It may cause high register pressure. For more details, you can refer [oneAPI GPU Optimization Guide](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/oneapi/optimization-guide-gpu/2024-0/overview.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This message is shown because the Compatibility Tool finding the user-declared private memory size of the local variable in the kernel may exceed 128 bytes, which is the largest register size for each work-item. It may cause high register pressure. For more details, you can refer [oneAPI GPU Optimization Guide](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/oneapi/optimization-guide-gpu/2024-0/overview.html)
```

time to subtract from total: 0.0148924 s
bitcracker - total time for whole calculation: 452.283 s
```
**Note:**
* The testing result was collected run on Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-13700K CPU backend with Intel® oneAPI Base Toolkit(2023.2 version).
* The Reference migrated code is attached in **migrated** folder.

If an error occurs during runtime, refer to [Diagnostics Utility for Intel® oneAPI Toolkits](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/diagnostic-utility-user-guide/top.html).

## bitcracker License
[License.txt](https://github.com/oneapi-src/Velocity-Bench/blob/main/bitcracker/LICENSE.md)

## Reference
* Command Line Options of [SYCLomatic](https://oneapi-src.github.io/SYCLomatic/dev_guide/command-line-options-reference.html) or [Intel® DPC++ Compatibility Tool](https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/intel-dpcpp-compatibility-tool-user-guide/top/command-line-options-reference.html)
* [oneAPI GPU Optimization Guide](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/oneapi/optimization-guide-gpu/)
* [SYCLomatic project](https://github.com/oneapi-src/SYCLomatic/)

## Trademarks information

> Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries.
```

Fix the warning in migrated bitcracker code:
```
$ cat ${bitcracker_HOME}/CUDA/out/src/attack.dp.cpp
...
/*
DPCT1110:3: The total declared local variable size in device function
decrypt_vmk_with_mac exceeds 128 bytes and may cause high register pressure.
Consult with your hardware vendor to find the total register size available and
adjust the code, or use smaller sub-group size to avoid high register pressure.
*/

void decrypt_vmk_with_mac(
...
```
This message is shown because the Compatibility Tool finding the user-declared private memeory size of local variable in the kernel will exceed 128 bytes which is the largest register size for each work-item on the Intel® XE core when the sub-group size is 32. It may cause high register pressure.

> In **out/src/attack.dp.cpp**, the application defined 56 **uint32_t** type value, totally need 224 bytes memory which exceed the 128 bytes on the XE GPU vector engine register size. The migrated code didn't specify the sub group size, let compiler to determine the size. And user can explicitly specify the sub group size to 16 by ```[[intel::reqd_sub_group_size(16)]]``` after the submit function. Manually changing is add the reqd_sub_group_size:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **out/src/attack.dp.cpp**, the application defines 56 **uint32_t** type value, totally need 224 bytes memory which exceed the 128 bytes on the XE GPU vector engine register size. The migrated code have not specified the sub group size, let compiler to determine the size. And user can explicitly specify the sub group size to 16 by ```[[intel::reqd_sub_group_size(16)]]``` after the submit function. Manually changing is add the reqd_sub_group_size:
```

```
### 6 Run migrated SYCL version bitcracker
```
$: ./bitcracker -f ../../hash_pass/img_win8_user_hash.txt -d ../../hash_pass/user_passwords_60000.txt -b 60000
---------> BitCracker: BitLocker password cracking tool <---------

==================================
Retrieving Info
==================================

Reading hash file "../../hash_pass/img_win8_user_hash.txt"
================================================
                  Attack
================================================
Type of attack: User Password
Psw per thread: 1
max_num_pswd_per_read: 60000
Dictionary: ../../hash_pass/user_passwords_60000.txt
MAC Comparison (-m): Yes

Iter: 1, num passwords read: 60000
Kernel execution:
        Effective passwords: 60000
        Passwords Range:
                npknpByH7N2m3OnLNH1X9DJxLrzIFWk
                .....
                dL_7uuf3QCz-c6K3xDu0
--------------------
================================================
Bitcracker attack completed
Total passwords evaluated: 60000
Password not found!
================================================
time to subtract from total: 0.0148924 s
bitcracker - total time for whole calculation: 452.283 s
```
**Note:**

> * The testing result was running on Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-13700K CPU backend with Intel® oneAPI Base Toolkit(2023.2 version).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The testing result was collected run on Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-13700K CPU backend with Intel® oneAPI Base Toolkit(2023.2 version).
```
